Another episode of between sermons.
We are already having fun.
You should have heard us before the cameras went live Just having so much fun today because we kicked off a brand new series on Sunday called red Flags red letters It almost came out so red flags so we're
We're looking at ourselves, really, is what we're doing in the series.
And so we're going to have a good time talking about that as we kind of move from the monologue from the stage into some actual dialogue, kind of a glimpse of a small group happening if you haven't been a part of between sermons before.
That's what we're doing.
We're going to get a little practical, get into each other's lives and kind of help all of us get better in this area.
Yes.
And to do that, I got
other hat-wearing people in the room to help have this conversation.
We sent out the text this morning and we were on one board.
It was hat day.
Hat day.
Yeah, I'm excited to be on this show because we get to talk about emotions.
And I feel a little outnumbered because I have two guys and one girl.
Yeah, I think we are just expecting you to do all the talking.
No, no, no.
No.
But I don't know.
You guys could be a little emotional.
I definitely can't reveal to you some emotions during this whole studying.
A lot.
Sure.
OK. You know what?
OK.
I have all the emotions.
You have all the emotions.
OK.
So why don't you kick us off?
Well, first.
Lushan, thank you for joining us today.
We got to make you more of a regular.
I feel like all of our other guests, they've been out here 12 times.
So.
Pretty.
So, but thank you for joining us.
It's going to be a fun conversation about red flags.
And I like how you did the spin-off, Pastor Brent, because when I first heard the sermon series, I was like, oh, we get to point out red flags and other people.
I was ready for it.
You were already thinking about who you needed to invite.
I was ready.
You're like, I got this guy and this lady.
I have bunch of people.
Was it mostly family members or friends?
Oh, family.
It's the holidays, too?
I was like, oh, we going to be at work.
You said the holidays, too?
We going to be at Thanksgiving.
I was in a conversation with somebody after the service, and they're like, you chose this timing, didn't you?
Yeah.
I was like, what?
Right after you were having Thanksgiving dinner with all your family and right before you're going to have Christmas with all your family?
Yes.
Yes, we did.
This was intentional.
Yes.
But you put a spin on it.
You are challenging us to look at our red flags.
And so, I mean, I'm here for it.
That's what we do at Disciples Church.
Yeah.
I kind of wish I had like a big prop, like mirror and a prop window on the stage.
Just kind of like hammer that home.
But yeah, so the thing usually with red flags is you're judging other people.
Yeah.
Right?
Like it's just, it's so much fun.
It's so much easier to look at other people's problems than to address our own.
And so instead of looking out the window at everybody else, we're looking in the mirror to see, okay, what's going on here?
Like if somebody else is looking at me, what are my red flags?
Like what are the things that I need to be working on?
And honestly, you could take this into like relationship advice for sure, but really I think that this just comes down to as disciples of Jesus Christ, as we go out in the world, we're supposed to be a representation of Him.
But a lot of times the red flags in our lives, it makes us a poor representation.
And so we need to do some,
some self-work in order to get into that place where we can be better disciples.
So you kicked us off with out-of-control emotions.
Why did we land with out-of-control emotions?
It actually started with extreme emotions.
And the more I was developing the messages, the more I was like, it's not just that these emotions are extreme, it's that they're out of control.
Because you can have an extreme emotion and still keep it in control.
But it's actually when you let that emotion, whether it's extreme or mild, when you let it be in control, that's when the problems happen.
So before I get your thoughts, let's shine on how the message rocked you.
Pastor Brand, why don't you give those who didn't have an opportunity to watch that message, which I encourage you to do, because it was all up in your business.
If you are an emotional person, or I won't even say if you're an emotional person.
I feel like I'm an emotional person, but I feel like this was more like very solid, dig deep type of address and emotions.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's interesting.
So over the weekend, we had a nasty snowstorm.
So there's probably more people watching the podcast today that didn't see the message than usual.
But to give the rapid fire version of the message, emotions are from God.
They're good.
He designed us.
He built us so that we could feel and experience emotion.
But when we misuse those emotions or we allow those emotions to control us, it always leads us to bad places.
So if we look at emotions as
like the warning lights on your car.
Like the warning light isn't a problem.
It's whatever the warning light is indicating.
It's an indicator of a problem.
And our emotions, the emotion itself is probably not the problem, but it is an indicator of something that's going on in you or how you're processing something that we need to address.
And so basically the three, three advices that I gave was first of all, feel
feel your emotions.
And I felt like that needed to be said to a Christian audience because we walk around with the whole I'm blessed and highly favored.
And so there's a lot of repressive emotions in Christian circles, I think.
I don't know why I'm laughing at that, because it's really not good, but it's just kind of, I don't know, it becomes almost stereotypical for a lot of church culture.
And so just taking cues from David and Jesus who we see in the Bible like actually feel very strong emotions ups and downs and You see them feeling it, but you also you see David processing it with God you see Jesus being in control even when his emotions are extreme And so yeah, so we need to feel it.
Yeah, but
the big thing the hard work is after you feel it you got to challenge it because just because you feel something doesn't make it make it true doesn't make it like healthy doesn't make it correct and a lot of times we're actually our emotions are built off of like a wrong story like a bad narrative we're like
We jump to conclusions or we see something.
We think that this is what's going on.
We try and explain it.
We create this whole narrative in our head.
And all of a sudden we're experiencing an emotion that's actually technically built on a lie.
And we need to address the lie and not just believe the emotion.
And so we got to challenge those things.
And we gave a few practical ways where you can challenge stuff.
And then after you've challenged the emotion, you got to do something with it.
And the biblical way is to either channel it or correct it.
So either we're going to use that emotion for good or we're going to swap out that bad emotion for an appropriate emotion.
And so that's really when you take control and you say, okay, I'm not being driven by my emotions.
However, I can use this emotion the way I'm feeling right now.
I can use this for God's glory.
So I could get really frustrated with an evil I see in the world.
And I could choose to just be depressed about it, or I could choose to do something about it.
And so when we're channeling the emotion, that means that we're gonna do something about it.
The case study for that, if you don't know the story behind Mothers Against Drunk Driving, MAD, the organization, a mother lost her daughter to a drunk driver and was like, we have to do something to stop this.
So like an entire movement, entire like advertising and campaigns and all kinds of stuff took place because one mom was like,
I'm, this is not okay.
Like I'm upset and I need this to stop.
I need other parents to not have to go through what I've gone through.
And so she took that emotion.
She channeled it for something good.
And you see that with a lot of different organizations and a lot of different people out there doing great things.
But then you also have some emotions that just need to be corrected.
Cause it's the wrong response.
Cause it was built on a lie or you've just,
You've got something going on, you need to address it.
And so our example from the Bible was Jonah, who it's four chapters.
You could read through it in a few minutes.
It's an amazing story.
And it is the most, it is such a backward story.
Everything that takes place in Jonah is like the opposite of what every other prophet, every other book in the Bible, it's literally like the bad people keep doing the good thing.
The good person keeps doing the bad thing.
Like everything is just like kind of flipped on its head.
And it's just a really, really fascinating story.
Like there's so much just depth to this little story.
But essentially it boils down to Jonah the prophet gets angry that people repent.
It's like, that is not the appropriate response to repentance.
So like clearly he had an emotion, he had a response that was not appropriate for the circumstances.
It needed to be corrected.
and Jonah refuses to correct it.
And so the whole message is kind of built on one line where God confronts Jonah after he's being an idiot and says, do you do well to be angry?
And for me like that, that verse just rocked me.
It was the weird language of it.
Like we don't go around saying, Hey, do you do well to be angry?
Right.
It was just a weird phrase, but it's stuck with me.
And I think that it really was that mirror moment for Jonah to say, Hey, this, this emotion is that you're feeling is not the right emotion.
We need to challenge this emotion and then we need to do something with it.
And Jonah just refuses.
So he's, he's our example of what not to do.
Okay.
Um, but yeah, so.
Yeah, I guess that's the, that's kind of the sermon.
That's good.
Yeah.
Five minute window.
I think you did good.
I'm like, man, it's like spoiling the movie and now.
Hit the highlights.
Right.
I think some people were listening to this and be like, dude, you, you preach for like 50 minutes.
Like, couldn't you have just done the five minutes?
Right.
No.
No, you, you laid out a lot of good points in your message.
But what, what's, what this is making me think about is
For you, LaShine, what is that moment where God said to you, do you do well to be feeling the blank?
What was that emotion for you?
Because it may not be anger.
It could be another emotion.
Well, I think this message related to me in such a way, because I actually dealt with anger, really bad anger.
So anytime I go around my family, just by them seeing how I grew up, I was not the smiling guy like I am now.
cheerful, starting conversations.
I was just hiding the corner, frowning all the time.
So this message was, for me, was a reminder of where God brought me.
So it was just, yeah, dealing with emotions.
I feel like some emotions, yes, are things that we kind of take on, but can be talked to.
And so what I found myself doing was kind of taking on the emotion of anger,
by seeing my dad being angry, you know?
So, way he would walk and like that.
It was through my freedom that he was made free.
So, it was, yeah.
So it's, the message yesterday, Peebee was like, wow.
It like took me back in time.
I was like, wow, this is crazy.
I used to deal with anger.
I used to just be mad.
I was one of those people like Jonah.
Like, man, why?
No, I'm a Christian, I'm better.
Like, hey, you know, just having that type of attitude and stuff.
I just think the series was timely.
I just bought a book, The Beta Satan.
So that book is literally, it's about emotions.
And so I don't know, I'm like, man, is there something that's still in me?
I don't need to- Why you say that?
I don't know, I just felt led to get this book.
I don't know if it was because PB is going to the message or, but yeah, just how all things are just.
coming together, but yeah, I hope to answer your question.
Yeah, no, that's okay.
What about you, PB?
What was your, do you do well too?
Yeah, so in the past, it was same as LaShawn, and we've talked about this on the show before.
And it always surprises people when I talk about how angry of a young man I was.
My football coach was my nickname on the field was Smiley, and it was one of those, you call the really short guy big, and you call the really big guy short.
Yeah, it was one of those.
So they called me smiley because I was never happy.
Just chip on my shoulder, just always trying to get in a fight.
What?
Definitely had that.
What they called the Napoleon complex.
They're like, you know, the little guy just has to stand up more.
And so, yeah, I was very angry as a young man and anger controlled every movement, every decision, every phrase, every everything.
And so definitely felt like I got delivered from that radically.
At about 19, 20 years old, just kind of, it's almost like the Holy Spirit just flipped the switch and like the anger just left.
So yeah, it was kind of a similar story.
I think for me now, I think that less than a like an overtly extreme emotion,
I think my struggle now would be more with like an apathy Like there's there's times when like there's just so much happening And maybe this is a guy problem Like there's so much happening that I'll just shut down And so it's it's I'm still letting the emotion control even though there's no like like I wouldn't say that I'm sad or depressed or anything like that It's just it's like there's too much happening and they're just kind of shuts down.
Yeah, I
Wow.
But it's still, it's still an issue that I've been looking in the mirror like, okay, how do we fix this?
That's good.
Well, thank you for sharing that recent thing.
Where do you think the anger is really funny that both of the men on the show dealt with anger?
I can't say I can relate.
You don't have any anger issues?
I don't think I, I'm just very highly, I was very highly emotional.
See how I switched it.
You were already juice-winged though.
Cause you, you had us get honest and vulnerable.
So do you do well?
to be emotional like just in general like high emotions.
And maybe it was anger because you did mention this in your message yesterday how a lot of things are just like symptoms of like other causes.
So I feel like maybe it was times I was like fearful or I was angry.
I was disappointed and it just
came out.
It's just very emotional.
And so I also like how you said, sit like sit with those emotions.
And what was the first point?
So you got to dig deeper, dig deeper.
That's because because yeah, because like emotions they're
A lot of times, and part of the message on Sunday felt like a counseling session more than like a sermon.
And it was weird because like first service, the head of our counseling department is on like the second row just staring at me.
And I'm like, holy, am I stepping on your toes too much?
Am I saying something wrong?
She didn't come correct me, so I think we did all right.
But yeah, because there's so much in the counseling department in the realm of counseling that this played into.
uh, with the emotions, but yeah.
So like sometimes we, we, uh, how do I phrase that?
Like we misdirect an emotion.
Yeah.
So like you get frustrated at work.
So then you come home and you yell at your kids.
Right.
And it's like, well, yeah, the kid did something, but it was like, the kid did something minor.
Like your response was not proportional to what they did.
Yeah.
But because you took all of the anger that you were feeling at work,
anger exploded out of you at home.
But our emotions are so complex that sometimes it can be a completely different emotion.
But it's just masking something else.
Sometimes our anger isn't really anger, it's actually fear.
Or sometimes that fear is actually insecurity.
And if you could solve the insecurity problem, it would fix the fear problem, it would fix the anger problem.
And so you keep kind of digging lower and lower into the depths of your emotions.
And that's the kind of thing that, like I talked to a few people after service, like that's the kind of thing a sermon doesn't fix.
A therapist can fix that.
Like the Holy Spirit can start a work in you, but then go see a therapist, see a counselor, like talk through this stuff because you might have some repressed emotions from when you were a child that are coming out now at 40 years old and you're like, I don't even know where this came from.
But you need those conversations, you need that other person to kind of help dig that out for you.
Yeah, because triggers are real.
Yeah.
But you did a little hallelujah dance.
You got delivered from insecurities, fear.
Which one was it?
So if we're saying the deep cause, I think mine was just, I was thinking as you was talking to people, I think mine was rejection.
That's where they're staying from.
So rejection, birth, fear, and birth, anger, and resentment, all those types of things.
So when I,
I was able to deal with those problems.
I felt like everything else started to clear.
And it was funny, you brought up the mirror thing.
Shout out to my mom.
My mom was a real help in my deliverance of anger.
And I remember one moment, I was just frowning.
She was like, son, you're too nice looking to be frowning all the time.
I was like, man, it's just my resting phase.
That was my excuse.
It's just my resting phase.
She was like, no, come on.
So she took me to a mirror.
She said, do you see how you're looking?
And I just remember like my eyes, I was like, wow, I look terrible.
Like I don't look approachable, I look mean.
Like, I'm a, this is for our family.
I'm like, how am I going to find my wife looking like this?
Right.
Ask her the real questions.
That's the important thing.
Right.
So yeah, so, and it just opened my eyes.
But I think my real deliverance took place when I was able to forgive my father.
I think that's when everything was like, okay.
That was the rule of everything, feeling rejected, feeling like I was overlooked because he was more so.
My dad's a pastor for those who don't know, I'm a PK.
So I felt like he was picking a church over me.
I got a basketball game.
You got to go see a sick member, you know, so like that.
So just constantly balling in, you know, that emotion up and over the years, you know, it started.
getting tense and he start putting that on God.
I don't want to get my words today.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, you know, it's still like that.
So, but yeah, man, I think my real deliverance happened when I realized it was, the root was rejection.
They weren't that rejection.
They were forgiving the person who I felt rejected me.
Yeah, it's good.
That's healthy.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's so crazy because I think I share with you Pastor Brent.
I'm reading a book on emotions and there was a chapter about rejection and it goes all the way back to like when people were living in communities and huts and stuff like that.
Like you, when you were ex-communicated from communities, like rejected, that was your survival or whatever.
And so you felt like you had to survive on your own.
And so when we feel rejected, it's like a sense of like, I'm on my own, no one loves me.
You know, it's all of those things.
So.
That's how pride starts.
Yeah.
You build your own.
I don't need nobody.
Intense.
Man, that's good.
All right, what short story now?
So what I think I always like to find questions.
I think that's like my new thing with the podcast, because I feel like there's a lot of people who watch and have real questions about like these topics.
And I feel like emotions can be.
can be a heavy type topic.
I remember expressing that.
And so let's just go through a couple of questions and you guys can kind of answer it based on what the Holy Spirit is leading you to.
And then I know Pastor Brent, you wanna give us some nerd out moments with Jonah.
You wanna do that now or when we go into the question?
Man, I gave a lot of nerd moments to Jonah on Sunday if you were paying attention.
Before we go into the questions, how did you choose Jonah's story to reflect emotions?
So it was actually, it was interesting.
We were in sermon planning.
And I had an idea to really build a whole message around Jesus in the garden to get so many Because it's like this this strong emotion But I kept coming back to the problem is like we don't actually get an insight into what's going on in his head Like to know like here's how he did this or here's why he did this like oh
All we can see is just a few moments of what he did.
And he did some great things.
So we still brought that into the message.
He brought his friends closer, and he submitted that emotion to God, like he's to his father.
He's feeling overwhelmed.
He's feeling this sweat and blood.
It's an intense emotional moment.
And then he ends it with, but not my will, but your will be done.
So we learned some great things from Jesus.
But it still just felt like I need
I need somebody that we can actually like see a little bit more of the psyche for it.
And that's when we started talking about Jonah.
So I brought him up as like a secondary option.
And it was like, honestly, I think the deal, the tiebreaker for it, because we saw great things in Jesus, we saw horrible things in Jonah, like the good model or the bad model.
the tiebreaker hilariously or randomly is next year we're gonna be walking through the book of Luke.
And everybody's like, we're gonna be in the New Testament for the next like 15 years.
It'd be nice to get an Old Testament story.
And I was like, all right, done.
And so that's when we just started really just focusing in on Jonah and his story.
It was partially just because we're gonna be in the New Testament so much that it was like, yeah, an Old Testament story would be great to kind of close out the year.
I thought it was dope.
I don't want to be honest.
I don't know if I'm the only person who grew up in church that didn't know the full story of Jonah.
Like, it stopped for me when he was spit out and he obeyed God.
That's because that's the kid from the version.
Like, the kid from the version is Jonah.
Jonah, hey, you did it.
You obeyed God.
I know.
The real story of Jonah, he's depressed, suicidal, angry, resentful, and the story ends.
I'm crazy.
Like, there's literally like, so there's a repentance moment for Jonah in like chapter two.
or chapter three, like in that space.
But at the end of the story, no, he's just sitting there mad.
Right, just looking.
Yeah.
So Jonah's story is so short, but like there's so much depth to it.
So like one of the first things I did is I pulled up, we've talked about on the show, the Beema podcast.
So I pulled up their episode on Jonah, just kind of listened through some stuff, then I read some commentaries about Jonah and just,
start to discover just how deep the book of Jonah is for only four chapters.
Like it's it's a fascinating like piece of literature.
Like if you want to just take it from that standpoint, like the way the book is balanced, we're like chapter one reflects chapter four, chapter two reflects chapter three.
Like there's there's all of this stuff that's happening the way
God describes the great city, the great city, the great city, then a great fish, and it was exceedingly this and exceedingly that.
There's all this language stuff that's happening that's just really, really fascinating.
And then I pointed out a few things in the message, like the Hebrew phrase, they believed God, the same Hebrew phrase that Abraham says.
When God promises him all the stuff and it says it was counted to him as righteousness, like his faith in that, like it's the same phrasing, but now it's being given to this wicked evil people.
So like, yeah, the whole story is just so backwards.
I think we said this before, like the good people are doing the bad thing.
The bad people are doing the good thing.
Like they're quick to repentance.
They're quick to say sorry.
Jonah takes three days to repentance.
And then at the end of the story, he doesn't repent at all.
It's a very, very fascinating story.
And then at the end, Jonah quotes one of the most famous passages in the Old Testament, but stops the quote halfway and doesn't actually share the rest of God's character and God's nature.
Because it's screaming out of the page.
Jonah doesn't want God to be God to these people.
He's like, no, he's mine.
Right, I was gonna say selfish.
Yeah, it's that insecurity, it's that pride, it's that nationalism.
It's fascinating, like reading through, but it's one of those stories like, you can read it to a kid and they'd be like, yay, big fish, swallow the guy.
And then you can also read it as like an American mindset, like this Western mindset of going, well, how did he survive for three days in a fish?
Like how is that even scientifically possible?
But if you read it from like the eastern mind from the Jewish context of it, it's all of a sudden it's poetry.
It's beautiful.
It's fascinating.
There's all these balances that are happening.
Like it's just, you got to dig deeper.
Like it's a cool story.
So, PB, do you think that the, him being an ability of a whale and so like that is poetry?
You know what he was actually in?
I don't have a strong opinion at this point.
There was a time in my life when I would have had a strong opinion that this was literal.
And I can give arguments for why it'd be literal because it's actually referenced in the New Testament as a literal story.
But I could also make arguments for why this could just simply be allegory.
Like it's a lot of Jewish stories.
The story is meant to teach you something.
Whether it actually happened or not doesn't really matter in the Jewish mindset.
And so like that's where it becomes complicated of whether or not this is a real guy that really happened in this in this real way And honestly, I'm at a point in my life where I am smart enough to know that I'm too stupid to know the answer There's people way way smarter than me that have debated this and argued over it and then the other argument that a lot of people have is Was he alive in the fish or dead in the fish?
because because one of the arguments is that
He actually he dies and then he's resurrected And it's paralleling it's paralleling Jesus is dead for three days and then is resurrected and actually the New Testament refers to Jesus like Jonah In that same way and so like there's yeah These are the things that like you can argue and you can be fascinated on it and I would say at the end of the day and
Some of those things don't matter.
Like at the end of the day, did Jonah really get eaten by fish?
It doesn't really matter.
Like what you have to take from this story for today is what actually matters.
And so you see a prophet of God, the man of God doing all of the wrong things.
You see him getting jealous and frustrated and upset and angry at people repenting.
It's a reflection of our own lives when all of a sudden we start acting like Jonah.
And it's this judgment that God had against him.
And even the way the story ends with...
I love that we were talking about emotions with Jonah's story because his emotions cause him to say dumb things and do dumb things.
Hello.
When's the last time your emotions caused you to say something stupid or do something stupid?
Chances are the answer for all of us is way too recently.
But we see that repeatedly.
He goes inside the mountain.
It literally says he builds a shelter and then it says he sat and waited and then the sun came out and was beating down on him.
He built a shelter.
Why isn't he in the shelter?
Why is he sitting in the sun when he just built a shelter?
It's because he's all up in his feelings.
He's gone.
Like he's so frustrated, he's so angry, he would rather feel the intensity of the heat on him and complain about the heat than just walk three feet over and sit in the shelter he already made because his emotions are controlling him.
He's doing dumb things because of his emotions.
And then he curses the worm because the worm comes out and eats this
that God caused to miraculously grow.
And he's so upset he's ready to die again.
And God's like, why are you upset that the plant died, but you're not upset that the people of Nineveh would die if I didn't forgive them?
Like, what about the, and like God even basically tells him like, you did nothing to create that plant.
I created those people.
I have the right to be upset at their death.
you don't have a right to be upset at the death of the plant.
It's like mic drop moment.
Every time God speaks in the story, it's like whoa.
And then Jonah still acts like an idiot the entire time and the story just ends.
And I was just thinking.
I feel like it ended like that because God is trying to show us like, OK, you will become a slave to your emotions.
Just sit there in your pity, in your mess.
And that's a very Jewish way of teaching.
Yeah.
The Jewish way of teaching is I don't give you the answer.
I take you on a journey so that you can discover the answer for yourself.
That's deep.
And that's the problem though when we read the Bible as 21st century Americans because we're like, just give me the answer.
Just tell me what I'm supposed to do.
Tell me how it ends.
Are you going to look like that?
You're just going to give us these
powerful messages that leave us there like, what do I do now?
I don't know, maybe we'll see, we'll see how it goes.
Luke though, he's a gentile.
So his mindset is a little bit different than the Jewish.
So we'll get a little bit more direct with Luke.
Was that enough of a nerd out moment?
No, that was great.
Really, Jonah, like it's fascinating.
We can stay there.
Get some commentaries on Jonah.
I was just thinking, I'm going home today.
and died because how many times, it's just a hard thing.
It reminds me of the prodigal son's brother, how when he came back and he had this whole attitude and it's like, why is it that sometimes believers are in position where we don't wanna see other people come to true freedom?
It's messed up.
Wow.
Something to sit with, why do we struggle with that?
Man, okay.
You got something, you getting a revelation over there worship leader?
I'm just along for the ride.
You got a song for this moment.
All right, here's some questions because people probably are really struggling with like this whole emotion things.
I saw people wrestling with it.
I wrestled with it.
I do feel as a testimony that God healed me.
and my emotions.
Actually, the Sunday you called me on stage.
No, God called you out.
God called me out.
It was a God thing, because I could be kind of like, oh my gosh, in my head so much.
So sometimes I need to...
Somebody be like, Tisha.
Yeah, that's kind of like in the story of Jonah, Jonah gives this prophetic word doesn't mention God at all, but they believed God.
Right.
Like it was, you heard.
I heard.
LaShawn, but it was God.
No, I know it's God.
I know it's God.
And so no, seriously.
I love how we can connect everything back to God.
It was, and so just, I'm starting my healing process with emotions.
Cause I didn't even realize I was
emotional.
I mean, I think it's something like maybe anger.
I don't know if you just realize you were angry until someone had to put that mirror in front of you and say, why are you not smiling?
I don't know.
David never said, babe, why are you so emotional?
You know what it is.
Because if he did, he's a good man.
He has in so many ways.
But I feel like I just feel like it was a thing of women are emotional.
Obviously, he probably
Sometimes you can just tie it to women.
All women are emotional.
You're on par with everybody else.
Yeah, this is on brand.
If you leave me and go to somebody else, she gonna be emotional too.
So that's how I was taking it until really I had that moment where God was like, no, a lot of the sicknesses you're dealing with, you've been sick all year, emotionally, spiritually, mentally.
And I'm healing you.
from some things.
I'm healing you, I'm saying you're free.
And I felt that instantly.
I didn't feel the healing in my body so quickly, but I felt free in my mind and in my emotions.
So it is a real thing.
It's a real process.
But people may be struggling.
You hear people tie in like emotional,
to like spiritual warfare.
Like, how could you explain to someone that there's a difference?
They're like, I'm just depressed because the enemy's coming from me or whatever.
How could you encourage someone to maybe take a look and say, maybe this isn't a spiritual warfare.
Maybe there's some emotions you need to do it, because I was a part of that.
The devil just been messing with me all year.
My assignment must be great.
No, babe, you need to control emotions and to control.
So how can you encourage someone in that?
Man, I just think it all ties back to our relationship with God.
And are we able to hear God.
And even as we read the Bible, it's a big mirror.
So when I read the word,
It's like, it's what it says, the Bible says, the word guys sharpened any two S word.
And so literally when I read the Bible, I'm just convicted.
I'm just like, man, like I could do, yeah, it just really like cuss you.
And so I think that that's pivotal and understanding is this just me or, you know what I'm saying?
Or is this just, you know?
So I would encourage to, I guess,
take your relationship with God to another level, so he can reveal the things to you, so he can start helping you.
Yes, I shouted at my mom and it's like that, but I also did start getting in my way a lot.
I went to this season of just strictly, I really wanna learn God for myself and not just based off my, you know, my parents and stuff.
And I feel like a lot of people do know that it's them.
They'd rather say it.
Yeah, but it's easier to just point the finger at somebody and stuff.
And so I think the more and more you've got, that part of you can be softened.
And you will start being able to reckon, OK, I need to just accept this is me.
This is emotions.
This is not just my resting face.
I really am a mean person.
This is who I am.
Yeah, man.
Then I just feel like as a body of Christ, we have to do better with our emotions because I want to be real, like, I can't accept a prophecy from somebody if they don't.
Well, that's something I can't, but it's hard for me to, if you're not showing the fruits of the spirit, if you're not joyful, you're not, you know what I'm saying?
Nice of people.
If you're a liar, you know what I'm saying?
Just doing it.
It's just like, man, okay.
It's kind of really hard for me to receive this.
And I feel like us as believers, it's really important for us to check that so that we can reach more and more people.
And it's where my, you know, checking our emotions and stuff.
Because now they will have a better perspective of who God is.
We're saying God is love, but we're not loving.
You know?
So, yeah.
I think that the danger for charismatic churches is
want to blame the devil for everything, because it's an easier problem to solve.
Like for a lot of us, it's like, well, if this is demonic, or this is a spirit on my life, then when I get delivered, when God removes that spirit from my life, then I'm good.
Whereas if this is just like, I've got some repressed trauma, I've got some some emotional scars, I've got
I need to go to counseling twice a week for the next six years and work through this thing.
Man, I would much rather just pray one prayer, have somebody lay hands on me and be delivered to that evil spirit.
And it's like, so we will tend to gravitate towards the easier path.
And I think for charismatic, a lot of times the easier path is to just blame the devil.
And so this is where maybe I have overbalanced
in my own personal life and that's something that I'm having to wrestle with in the season.
But I'm in a place where I'm like, okay, it's 90% me, 10% devil.
If I own the 90%, let me work on this 90%.
And if there's anything else that's going on that's spiritual, then let me get in church and let me get around some believers and let me pray and let me solve this spiritual problem.
But I think that
the vast majority of the stuff that I deal with and I go through it's of my own making and sometimes
You know, we give credit to the devil for stuff that he didn't even have anything to do with.
And he's just sitting around going, man, that was all you, bro.
Like you woke up today and you chose that and you decided you were going to say that to your wife.
I didn't even have to get involved.
Well, you did my job.
And you're like, you're doing it for me.
Why would I mess with what's working?
And so, yeah, I think that for me personally in this place, my default is not to go to a spiritual problem or
classified as a spiritual problem.
I'm going to classify it as a natural problem.
And the exception of the rule is, yes, there are spiritual things happening.
So yes, and we've talked about this before.
Yes, the devil is behind some bushes.
He's just not behind every bush.
And so, yeah, that's kind of where I'm at personally.
But I will admit that I may have overcorrected.
And I need to come back to a, maybe it's a 60-40, not a 90-10.
You may get to that when you get in Luke.
I was reading about that whole.
Luke does have a lot of deliverance.
Yeah, it does.
A lot of that.
So I don't know.
It'd be fun to hear your perspective.
And for the record, I believe in deliverance and ministry and all that.
I'm not anti that.
I'm a little bit anti making that the priority and focus of everything.
Every problem is not the devil.
No, I agree.
Sometimes it's the flesh.
Yeah.
So lack of self-control.
I was one of those, man.
Man.
Lack of self-control?
No, just blaming everything on the devil.
Oh.
You need deliverance.
You just need to be nice.
But I was over here just thinking, like, even when I was talking to PB, of our prayers should be for God to not necessarily take all of our emotions away, but how to navigate them.
Yeah.
Because he literally gave us those emotions.
And you see God literally in the Bible have anger.
have jealousy.
You know what I'm saying?
We say we're made of his image.
I just think we just have, in a way, distorted how our emotions are supposed to be.
So I was just, even when he was talking, he's like, man, God, help me navigate.
No, that's the real thing.
My emotion is better.
Yeah.
Where you're not taking them away, because I don't want to be no heartless person.
Like, could you be so heartless?
I want to still feel, but to do it in a way that you intended it to be.
Yeah.
I agree.
That was one of the questions I had.
I'm like, okay, why don't you create emotions?
Because clearly they were put here for a reason.
And I know you mentioned in your lesson yesterday that your message that it was for a guide, for us to stop and pause and be like, okay, what is this saying about where I am?
Yeah, it's indicating what's going on inside of you in relation to what's going around you.
So like, things are happening and your emotions are a way of you processing what's happening.
And so, yeah, I think that the only alternative to no emotion would be for God to have no free will for us, to just create robots.
But at that point, like, man, there's some philosophers that are going to, man, have brilliant things to say about this.
But it's this idea that, like, some emotions, you can't even understand the good one.
And I hesitate to say good because a counselor would be like, there are no good and bad emotions.
But if we were to categorize certain things, you can't really appreciate joy unless you have an understanding of sadness.
Because there's a contrast there that when you understand joy, or when you understand sorrow and sadness to a deep level, it gives you a greater appreciation of joy.
That's true.
And so in order for you to fully understand joy, there has to be the opportunity to not have joy.
Yeah.
And so I think that that's why emotions are so complex and there's kind of polar opposites to some emotions and you've got to be able to experience all of them in order to be fully human.
He's over there.
He pretends that you have.
Man, I'm in a middle-aged counselor session.
Man, I preface this, I think, in the message, like, I am not a counselor.
Like, you do not want me for your counseling session, because my solution in counseling is to just figure out what stupid thing you did and then tell you not to do that stupid thing.
Because that's marital counseling.
You said, what to your wife?
Like, stop saying things like that to your wife, and your marriage will be better.
Like, you do not come to me for counseling.
That's why we have a team.
that is so skilled and so qualified to be able to do those things.
That's who you want.
I would, I would, I'm sorry.
No, go ahead.
I would say, man, like, PB, the Holy Spirit definitely anointed you for this series, even yesterday, because it was a gracious, holy rebuke.
Like, I feel like people were like, like, dang.
You know what I'm saying?
He was really talking to me, but it was done with love, and it made you want
And that's our goal every Sunday is to people to want more of Jesus and to want to be more like God.
So I would say I was going to commend you on that like, man.
I appreciate that.
Just the grace that you did it in was amazing.
Yeah, I mean, that's the, it's tied back into Jonah.
Jonah delivers this five word sermon and the people's response is to cry out mightily to God.
He's like, man, every time I get up on that stage, every time I'm giving anybody a word,
My desired result of that is for you to cry out to him.
I'm not the solution to the problem, but he is.
So you need to get connected to him.
Yeah.
No, I agree.
And I do think you have the gift of counseling.
I don't know.
Aren't we all ministers?
Ministers of the gospel, don't that put you in the same category?
A pastor definitely has to operate in counseling.
And I do have counseling appointments with people, but it's usually
last resort.
This is not my gift set.
This is not where I shine.
My mother was a licensed counselor.
Got a degree in it.
She's graded it.
I've read some counseling stuff and I've sat in some counseling sessions.
I've learned enough to get you through to get me through one session with somebody.
After that, I'm going to write that prescription to the real counselor.
I have to talk with you last hour.
You really need to talk to somebody.
And I've probably made it worse.
Everything you've done stupid.
I'm just playing.
Yeah.
I do try and control my tongue a little bit more in that setting to not just say, well, that was stupid.
But I don't know if my face ever betrays me.
Yeah.
Because sometimes.
It's a real thing.
Yeah, it's a real thing.
All right, a couple more.
Is it a lack of faith if you feel overwhelmed?
Maybe.
That's a hard one to just answer with a blanket statement.
I think that there are situations and seasons where you're feeling overwhelmed because you're not trusting God with the outcome.
So then, yeah, it could be a faith issue.
I think sometimes though, just the reality of when you're first confronted with all the stuff.
We've talked before, if I'm facing one huge thing, I'm fine.
If I'm facing 100 small things, I can't even function.
It's death by 1,000 cuts.
Is that the movie?
Just go ahead and stab me with a big sword.
Don't give me 1,000 paper cuts.
And so like, for me, that's when it becomes overwhelming.
I also think, I'm trying to remember who I heard first talk about this.
It might have been like Mark Batterson or Craig Rochelle or somebody that basically just talked about like, for some of us, it's easier to have faith in certain areas than it is in other areas.
And so like, you can have super strong, I know some guys like anytime they get sick or somebody they love gets sick, their faith for healing is like,
it's huge and they're immediately praying and delivering people and they're like, God's gonna heal you.
And then at the same time, that same person, all of a sudden they can face a financial struggle.
And they're like, I don't know what I'm gonna do and God, I just don't know where you are in this.
And so it's like, we've got faith in different areas, which is part of why you need the body of Christ to come together.
It's so that when I'm facing an area of weakness, I've got somebody that I can take that to and they can say,
I've got the faith for you in this situation.
And so, like, yeah, I think being overwhelmed can be an indication of a faith issue, but I wouldn't just necessarily, like, diagnose that for everybody.
I think God accounted for it, so lacking, like you said, having a lot of faith in this area, and this, because, you know, it goes back to the scripture where it says, we have faith besides monstrosity.
God, like, man, if you just show me a little bit, like, it may be hard,
You know, in this area, compared to this area, I just need you to believe me a little bit.
You know, so I just think, it's just, man, thank for the God, for grace, to even still be able to see us in those little moments like that, like man.
All right, it's small, but it's something else, you know, so.
Yeah.
I preach a sermon just about in every country that I go to.
It's one of those that I keep in my back pocket just for when I'm going someplace new.
and the message is called faith the size of a maybe.
And it's built off of.
That's a book, baby.
It's built off of Jonathan has this moment with his armor rarer when like it's a moment of Israel's history where there's literally only two swords in the entire nation of Israel because the Philistines have like conquered them so severely that like they the like farm workers have to go to a sanctioned blacksmith to get their tools.
like sharpened, like they're just not allowed to have weapons.
So there's only two swords in the entire kingdom.
Jonathan has one, and Saul has one.
So the king and the king's son have a sword each.
And Jonathan wakes up one day, and he tells his armor beret.
He's like, hey, let's just go over to the enemy's camp and just see what happens.
It may be that God will deliver us today.
Like, and literally, like, the story is so fascinating because like there's no like an angel of the Lord came
So Jonathan and said, hey, today's the day I'm going to deliver you.
I need you to go do this.
Literally, he just wakes up, looks over his arm bear and says, hey, maybe today.
Man.
Maybe.
And so they go and God shows up.
They kill like 20 guys in this garrison.
And then like it sets panic throughout the entire army.
Wow.
Like God's people come out of their caves.
And it's just an awesome moment.
But it's all built on him waking up and saying, maybe.
That is a book.
That's a book.
I think you need to pray like that.
You should write that.
No, no, no, no.
I'll give you the sermon notes.
No, no, no.
You turn it into a book.
That is a book.
That is good.
Wow.
That's just set some people free that maybe can get you through.
Maybe that's all you need.
And what's funny to me is there's a maybe in the Jonathan and the Jonah story, too.
Because like the the the people of Nineveh are fasting.
They're crawling out to God.
They're putting on sackcloth.
And I think it's in like verse five or somewhere in there where it says, maybe God will relent this destruction against us.
Their entire response was based on maybe because Jonah didn't promise them anything.
He didn't even say God was involved.
He said, 40 days are going to be destroyed.
Turn around and walked off.
No, that is a book.
You know why?
Because there's so many people who feel like it's either yes or no.
And they lean on one of those.
But that makes a lot of us wake up with that.
Maybe like, maybe this is the day.
And they feel convicted because it's not a full yes.
But that maybe.
I just thought of maybe to put it in his hands.
Yeah.
Exactly.
And for me, like, maybes are safe.
Like, that's what I mean by that is like, when my kids are asking me for something,
And I'm not ready to give them a yes or a no.
I just give them a maybe.
Yeah, maybe.
And so when I wake up with a maybe faith, what I'm saying is I'm putting this in God's hands.
And I'm going to try.
I'm going to do something.
And if God shows up, man, that's awesome.
If God doesn't show up, no big deal.
I was operating off of a maybe.
I didn't have this super strong conviction that, yes, it's going to happen.
And so now when it doesn't happen, now I'm devastated.
No, it's safe.
Maybe's are safe.
I like maybe's.
I like babies.
They're right.
We're pretty good to make this shirt.
It's going to mean nothing to anyone except for you.
I know.
I was like, what?
I was like, that's a radical shirt, baby.
Baby.
The Lord said yes, not this way.
Let your yes be yes, your no be no.
Who's this preacher coming in with a baby?
Sacrilegious.
Shut up, damn.
Man, you can use the Bible to just slam anybody on anybody.
Man, oh my God.
All right, let's do two more.
How do we know if we are processing our emotions or just suppressing them?
This is a counseling question, baby.
Just give it your best shot.
How will someone know if they are processing or suppressing?
I think it goes back to what you were saying, how you were even going through if it's starting to affect your body.
Maybe it's something going on emotionally.
And so to give a backstory, when you told me this last week about how you felt healing in your body, he was like, man, it wasn't what I was going through, but it was emotionally.
I instantly told my sister.
Yeah, I'm like, oh, my friend, I think you should have a sister in Christ at church.
She went through this.
I really feel like you should see God.
Maybe you're suppressing something.
And it opened up.
like, man, you know?
So, yeah, man.
So I think seeking, man, I think that's a good sign.
Am I sick?
Am I just automatically, you know, feeling, like, weird in my body?
Because, again, people try to tie that back to the devil as well.
Oh, the devil is attacking me, which he does.
He can't attack your health, or something like that.
But what do you allow him to attack you, you know?
Attack you, man.
You know?
I would say that that would be a good, for me, instantly when I heard that, when you tell me that's a wow.
What am I suppressing?
That can affect me naturally, like affect my physical health.
Am I dealing with headaches?
Am I dealing with, you know, stomach stuff?
So yeah.
Yeah, that headache one is real.
I experience that in my own life.
So I get headaches all the time.
Like I'm constantly having headaches.
they migrate depending on what's the cause.
So when I get a headache in the back of my head right here, I know it's stress.
I know immediately when my head starts hurting, but it's in the back, I know that it's because I'm not processing through something.
And so headaches can, for me at least, they're a huge indicator.
But I think that you don't even have to get to all the physicality and stuff.
Just ask yourself, what are you doing?
If you're suppressing, it means you're not doing anything.
If you're if you're processing it means you're doing something and so maybe you're processing by talking with somebody maybe you're processing by thinking through Situations and stuff so like that.
I think there's just a clear line between
processing and suppressing.
Suppressing is basically just saying, I ain't touching it.
We use the example in the message, putting the electrical tape over the warning light in your dashboard.
I literally knew somebody that did that, by the way.
I just didn't want to see that.
I'm like, dear, at least get your car fixed.
I don't want to drive with you anymore.
So yeah, what are you doing with those emotions?
If you're talking with somebody,
You're processing through, you're thinking through things, you're asking questions, you're digging deeper, you're taking those things to God.
Man, you're processing your emotions.
And if you're just trying to push through and move on, you're suppressing.
Yeah.
I just feel like we all can get better every day.
Because again, like I said, I've been delivered from anger and stuff.
I'm like, man, can I even grow even more?
And you know what I'm saying?
Will it be something?
Later on in life that come up, that trigger it again.
I think it's an everyday.
You're going to deal with your emotions every day.
You're going to hear an amazing message about dealing with your emotions and three days later you're going to be tested.
Just right in that place.
For me, we share that whole anger thing.
For me, in my maturity now, I don't have an anger issue, but I still have a frustration issue.
I can get frustrated super easily.
Somebody does something wrong, says something wrong.
It's the baby emotions.
My frustration just gets up.
But it's like, I've matured.
And so it's not anger.
It's not like I'm yelling and screaming and stuff.
But it is very internal.
And it is very like, kidding me.
Driving home yesterday, a car did something stupid in front of me.
snow all over the ground and a car cut us off and almost rammed in the car in front I had to slam on the brakes and I mean immediately you know what I said?
Idiot!
Literally just finished preaching about out of control emotions and how your emotions make you say dumb things and here I am yelling at this guy for no reason I mean
Yeah, that was a reason.
That is a question.
Okay, because I had this conversation with David.
I said, people do upset you.
What do you do?
What do you do with those emotions when something real does happen?
What do you do with those emotions?
Is it just the response that really takes it over?
Control the response.
So if you're saying something to them that you have to go back and apologize for later or you regret later and
there's conviction, then clearly you let your anger get the better of you in that moment.
So yeah, I think that the reality is you're feeling that emotion for a reason, right?
And so first I would start with figuring out, okay, why did that bother me so much?
There are some things that bother us a lot and we don't really know why.
And so that's part of that whole digging process, figuring out, okay, why did that set me off that way?
And it's man, sometimes you find that in marriages where it's like your wife can do the same thing a million times and doesn't bother at y'all at you at all.
And then she does something else.
And it's like the end of the world.
But like, if you were talking to somebody else, they'd be like, those things were like, not that big of a deal.
Like, why is this affecting you so much?
And so that's where I'm not qualified to solve that problem on a podcast.
That's where talk to a therapist, like talk to a counselor.
But yeah, I think, yeah, figure out
why you're feeling the way you're feeling, what's actually the root of it, what's actually the cause of it, and then how are you responding to that emotion?
Are you immediately yelling at people?
Are you immediately raising your voice?
Are you rolling your eyes and looking at them with judgment?
Yeah.
I don't know if that helps or not, but.
No, that was good.
I was thinking again about that book I'm reading.
It was talking about how our frustrations is tied to like eagle.
So like if there's an area, which is like our identity.
So if there's an area in our life that we feel like we are the superior of someone's challenging us, it's like a trigger.
It's like you're saying that.
that I'm a horrible person.
No, I just said I didn't like this one particular thing is challenges everything.
So like working on your ego and, and ultimately anchoring your identity in Christ is the biggest thing to really help with those processing.
And it's so funny.
One exercise I did yesterday as we land this plane, I was on my way to sleep and God was like, start yelling out names of people you need to forgive.
And I'm like, I'm forgiving everybody.
And then three people came to me randomly.
Don't worry about that.
No.
Dave is like, why do you keep yelling Brent's name?
And so I started saying the names and then I kept going.
And then one of the names ended up being mine.
I'm like, I didn't even know that I needed to forgive myself.
And, um, and so I would just say when you're processing, like just have honest conversation, like honesty,
on this conversation, sit with the Lord, ask him to show you your heart, cause he knows things that you've been suppressing that you never let go of, even little things.
That's not even like, it's not like big on the scheme of things, but it impacted you and you just wiped it away to start, start there.
So yeah.
We need to have that self-awareness too, to know that just because I feel something doesn't mean it's right.
Yeah.
To feel that way.
That, that's that man,
If we could just all learn how to challenge our emotions better, I think we'd be all right.
That's good.
I mean, how you challenge our emotions, Pastor.
Just be self-aware.
Yeah, I don't know how to teach self-awareness.
Maybe that's something I'll do a deeper dive on.
It's interesting.
This is years and years ago we had like a staff evaluation kind of process where the staff member had to do an evaluation and their direct report did an evaluation of them.
So it's like you're evaluating yourself and your boss is evaluating you and it was always fascinating because I was working with our executive pastor at the time directly and so I was part of the process and just the number of people that like
they would rank themselves like a three at something, and their boss would be like, you're a one.
Or they'd be like, I'm a five.
And their boss is like, you're like a two at best.
Was this an empowerment?
And then even the opposite would happen.
We had several employees who were like, I'm a two in this area.
I really need to improve.
And their boss is like, you are literally the best one in our department at that.
You're like a four and a half and five.
Like, and just going through that process, what I learned above everything else is we're not self-aware.
Like, I don't know if it's self-criticism for some and then this whole savior complex for others where it's like, I'm the greatest thing ever, or it's, I'm the worst thing ever.
But in either balance, like you're, you're off.
Like you're not being self-aware.
And so I recognize it as a problem.
I don't know the solution to that one yet.
But when you figure it out, let me know.
You should write that book on that.
Man, I don't know.
Self-awareness.
But yeah, no.
I think the challenging it is asking questions.
And I feel like we've talked about this a lot in the last few weeks.
It's just the need for curiosity with everything.
Like, why did I say it that way?
Why did I feel that way when they did that thing?
Yeah, that's good.
And in that curiosity, that's when you're digging a little bit deeper.
And then not just re-preach the message, but I think you need people in that process.
I think it's really hard because we're not very self-aware.
I think it's hard for us to process some things alone.
I think there's a lot of places where we just, even just for somebody to hear us, not even to give us the answers, but to just hear us like it helps us process out loud.
And then finally take it to God.
that there is a submission process in all of this that's saying, look, this is how I'm feeling right now.
I don't know if it's good or bad.
God, I just need you in it.
That's good.
Well, let's land this plane, guys.
What was your takeaway from this message and how can it be an encouragement to those who are watching?
Who wants to go first?
I'll go first.
Okay.
Do you do well to feel this way?
That's it.
I think if we just started questioning ourselves, asking that question, do I do well to feel this way?
I think it starts that whole process.
And I think sometimes we just take our feelings, our emotions for granted.
It's just like, well, I feel that way.
OK. Moving on.
It's like, no, no, no.
Why?
And is it good?
Like, do you do well to feel this way?
And please just don't be like Jonah at the end of the story when he's like, I do do well to feel this way.
I got to pull it out.
We didn't read it on Sunday.
But this verse just cracked me up so much.
I got to pull it up.
This is the end of Jonah's story.
It's chapter four.
God said to Jonah, do you do well to be angry for the plant?
And he said, yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die.
Like, this has got to be one of the dumbest things I've ever read in my novel.
Like, God's questioning him, challenging his emotions, and Jonah's response is, yeah, I do well to be angry.
I'm angry enough to die.
Kill me.
Like.
This is insane.
This is the man of God.
Obviously, your emotion is not appropriate.
Like, that is not good.
So don't answer like Jonah, but you got to answer the question.
Do I do well to feel this way?
I just thought it was crazy.
that the same thing he wished on those people, he wished on himself.
He wanted them to die.
He was so caught up in his emotions that he literally- Yeah, because he's flipping it.
He's like, I want to live and I want them to die, but if you're going to let them die, I guess that means I need, or if you're going to let them live, I guess I need to die.
This man had a lot of issues.
He's a bad boy.
Well, I want to know his backstory.
John, why do you sell bad stuff?
Stop looking out the window, Taisha.
Look in the mirror.
Was that a preventable?
No.
OK. Go ahead.
Go ahead, brother.
People pretty much said the same thing.
It was a real hard check.
And I think for me, again, even though you think you're here for something, that you can always just grow and get better.
Yeah.
He said, asking questions.
It really had me yesterday.
One, reminiscing and being grateful for, you know, the growth in my emotions, but it's like, okay, man, I can still do better.
I can get, I can grow in it and do better.
So I would just encourage anyone watching, you know, if you're like me or PB and you feel like you've arrived.
I was like, nah, I can still, girl, I can still get better and stuff.
So that's what I would say.
That's good.
Yeah.
You got Tasha.
Man, you prophesied what I needed to talk down this way.
I think it was a couple of things, but one that's standing out to me right now is the patience that God had with Jonah.
even in a mist.
And it wasn't God that necessarily rejected him or even in a mist of his stupidity.
I'll take your word.
It was his emotions that separated him from even receiving God's love and grace and mercy.
And God just kept trying to show him like, Hey,
You need to check your heart giving him all of these chances and he's still because of his emotions.
And so it even makes me wonder like we talk about sin and how that could be so heavy.
I feel like your emotions could be just as high as like sin.
to keep you from really receiving God's love and all that he wants from for you.
And even when God asks him those questions, like, do you do well?
Like that word well keeps sticking out to me because wellness is just so important.
Like he was clearly mentally gone.
And God was like, you're not well.
Do this moment.
Do you do well?
Just continue to be angry.
And he still didn't get it.
So I just think, man,
take some time to like pass the breath that sit with those those emotions because God really want you to be set free from it like that.
So it's a real thing and he's patient.
He sees you.
He understands and he's with you.
He want to walk with you.
He didn't leave Jonah.
in that moment.
He's like that father looking over and I'm like, do you want to go into the house you built?
Or do you want to sit here?
It was just like a whole daddy son moment.
Still providing.
Still providing, still giving.
Bring a plant to cover this plant.
And Jonah's just missing all of this.
Missing it because of his emotion.
So it just makes me wonder, like, what are we missing because of our emotions?
That was my takeaway.
Yeah, I pray that this message encourage you to man, just go deeper because God wants us to be well, especially for 2026.
And yeah, I encourage you to go watch the message and join in on the rest.
Cause we were talking about emotions.
We're talking about lack of communication.
Save your complex.
I think I'm just going to exit.
I'm going to come back after this.
I'm going to come back when it's Christmas.
That's what I'll be back.
So yeah, go ahead and watch that.
And if you have any questions, let us know.
I like to slide in some questions at the end of the podcast episode.
So let us know and we can feature your question until next, until next time.
We love you and God bless.